You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWS.org.
Today's message comes from senior pastor, Dr. Bob McCartney.
Let's open our Bibles this morning to Luke chapter two, verse 17.
You guys made me feel better today about that.
I just want you to know that.
But before I begin my message this morning, I really do need to do something personal for just a moment.
And that is that I need to thank you.
I want to thank you for being a warm, loving church family.
You have embraced my family this week from afar.
It has been a tough week for the McCartney family.
We are grieving the loss of mom, but we are grieving with hope, knowing that she is with Jesus,
and that she is in a place of comfort and peace and rest has blessed us, but you have been a blessing to us.
Every time you commented on a social media post, it was about her, the beautiful flowers that you sent as a church family, and just your personal condolences have meant a great deal to us.
So thank you for praying for us through this Christmas season.
You know, Christmas
is celebrated differently throughout the world.
There are some kind of unusual celebrations of Christmas when you really think about it.
Like in Germany, there is this part of Christmas that is called Krampusnacht.
And Krampusnacht is
is the night of fear because there's Santa Claus and there's this creature that's like the anti-clause.
And he comes to strike fear into children who are being disobedient and all of this stuff is kind of a demonic creature almost.
It's kind of weird.
In Japan, they celebrate Christmas, but Japan celebrates Christmas in an almost totally secular setting and meaning.
Japan is actually less than 0.2% Christian, not 2%, but 0.2%.
And so while they celebrate Christmas, it is done so in a way that is completely secular.
Christmas, for most of the Japanese, it's almost like a second Valentine's Day.
It celebrates love, but more romantic love.
And actually, the preferred meal or the traditional meal for the Japanese at Christmas is Kentucky Fried Chicken.
They eat more Kentucky Fried Chicken on Christmas than any other day of the year.
It's an amazing thing.
I have no idea why they do that.
I'm just telling you that's the truth, okay?
That's the way it runs.
We love celebrations at Christmas time.
But Christmas time isn't just about celebrations, it's about a proclamation.
A proclamation that God says, you matter to Him.
And we've talked just a little bit through the course of December,
about the meaning of Christmas.
And the meaning of Christmas is that God said His Son in the form of a baby, that God Himself indwelled a human being, and that He came to live among us, to be one of us, to identify with us, yet without sin, so that He could die the death of a perfect sacrifice for our sins and pay our price.
That's the meaning of Christmas.
We've also talked about
the mission of Christmas that Jesus came to seek and to save the lost, that His purpose was to come so that that bridge, that barrier between you and God could be crossed.
He came so that we could be set free from our sin and we could have a relationship with God through faith in Jesus.
And tonight we're going to talk about, or this morning we're going to talk about the message of Christmas.
And the message of Christmas can be found in the story of the shepherds.
The shepherds were out in the fields on the night that Jesus was born.
They're outside of Bethlehem just out in the fields, literally minding their own business because they were tending their sheep.
They were out there and it's a perfectly normal night.
It's just dark.
They're watching sheep.
They hear the bleeding of sheep around them, making sure that scavengers or thieves don't come up and steal the sheep when suddenly an angel appeared before the shepherds.
the emotion that we see most associated with angels is fear.
That's the first thing that an angel always says is, do not fear.
That's like their first thing, which it tells us something about angels.
It tells us that angels are not chubby little babies with wings that play harps.
That's not what an angel is.
An angel is a mighty warrior that strikes fear into people.
And so the angel says, don't be afraid.
And then he tells them why they shouldn't be afraid because I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for all people.
For today in the city of David, there has been born for you a savior who is Christ the Lord.
The person of Jesus Christ is summarized in a single sentence.
In a single sentence, we know who Jesus is.
He is the savior who is Christ the Lord.
He is the savior.
He is the one who came to die on a cross so that our price could be paid so that we could be forgiven for our sins.
He's Savior.
He's Christ.
Or the word there is a word that is translated for Messiah.
He is the anointed one of Israel.
He is the one who will fulfill all those 400-plus prophecies about who the Messiah would be.
He is the one who comes to reign, and He is Lord.
He is
He is curious, he is master, he is worthy of our worship, he is worthy of our allegiance, he is worthy of our obedience because he is our Lord.
In a single sentence, the person of Jesus is encapsulated.
And then he tells the shepherds, he says, and you can go see him, because he was born in Bethlehem, that little village right over there.
The Bible calls it a city, it's more just a little village, and he goes into Bethlehem,
or he says, go into Bethlehem and you'll find him.
And here's how you'll find him.
He will be wrapped in swaddling cloths, the rags that were used, not a beautiful little blue blanket, the rags, and he will be laid in a manger.
Now that sounds romantic at Christmas time.
It's not.
A manger is a feed trough for animals.
You don't lay a baby in a feed trough
That would be highly unusual.
In other words, when they go into town, there's only going to be one of these.
I mean, if there had been a dozen babies born in Bethlehem that night, no other baby is going to be wrapped in rags and laid in a feed draw.
And that's where they find Jesus.
And here's what the Bible says, their reaction to all of that was when they went.
Look at verse 17 of Luke chapter 2.
When they had seen him,
They made known the statement which had been told them about this child and all who heard it were amazed about the things which were told them by the shepherds, but Mary treasured all these things pondering them in her heart.
And the shepherds went back glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen just as it had been told to them.
You see, the shepherds were the first people to give voice to the Christmas story, to the good news that Jesus had come.
The shepherds were the very first people to tell anybody else about the story of Jesus.
And their example challenges us.
So let me give you a couple of challenges this morning.
Number one, give your voice no matter the size of your platform.
Some people seem to think that
They can't give their voice to the gospel.
They can't give their voice to the story of Jesus because they just don't have a very big platform.
I mean, if I just had a bigger platform, if I was up on the stage like Bob, or if I was on a football field and a reporter put a microphone in my face, or if I had this big, big platform, then I could share.
Let me tell you about the shepherds.
These shepherds had no platform whatsoever.
None.
These shepherds were not theologians or priests.
They were not trained men in theology.
They didn't know all of the scriptures.
They were not wealthy.
They were not powerful and they were not educated.
Shepherds were among the lowest people in society at that time.
They were virtually outcast.
They were outcast in society.
You see, shepherds had to work on the Sabbath.
And in that,
religious culture to violate the Sabbath was a really, really big problem.
There was a sense in which you were unclean if you violated the Sabbath.
And shepherds had to do that because those of you who have any livestock you know
that you just don't take a Sunday off and not just go feed them or tend to them or water them and make sure everything's okay.
You at least have to look after them.
And shepherds had to watch the sheep on the Sabbath so they were considered ceremonially unclean.
And because of that, nobody really wanted to be a shepherd.
It was kind of the last job anybody took.
It really was.
So shepherds,
A lot of times, especially shepherds who were just hired, not the ones who owned the sheep, but the ones who were hired, were seen as untrustworthy people.
So untrustworthy that their testimony was not admissible in court.
If a shepherd testified to something, then it had to be verified by someone else before anybody would believe it.
Now, this is one of the ways, by the way, this is a little sidetracked, but this is one of the ways we know the Bible is true.
Because if you're writing this story and you're making it up, you make up a witness to this who is actually trustworthy.
But what God does is He sends the first message of Christmas to a bunch of guys who were the lowest of society who had no platform whatsoever.
There's a lesson in that for us.
You see, you have a better platform than a shepherd.
You may not have a big platform, but I will guarantee you, you have a better platform than a shepherd does to share the story of Christ.
You know, I appreciate it.
I really do.
I've seen some criticism of guys and girls.
who, you know, after a football game, they'll say, you know, I want to first of all thank my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
I personally appreciate that.
I appreciated it when Fernando Mendoza, who won the Heisman Trophy.
One of the first things he said was, I want to thank God.
I want to thank my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
And he was very specific about not just a nebulous vague God, but Jesus Christ.
I appreciate that when they do that.
I think they're using the platform that has been open to them to at least say,
I'm a follower of Jesus.
I think that's a good thing.
I think it's a great thing when people let others know I am a follower of Jesus.
While some people would say that's not necessarily a great thing, I'm going to tell you that if you will use the platform you have, sometimes God will open the door for a bigger platform.
There are some guys down at Texas A&M and they're hanging around just making trick shots and doing stunts and they're videoing it on their iPhone.
and they start putting it on the web, and all of a sudden these things start going viral.
And they became Dude Perfect.
And now they're touring the country, filling up arenas, doing all these stunts and crazy things.
And it's amazing, but at the end of every single performance, they tell people that they're followers of Jesus and they present the gospel.
You see, whatever platform you have, God wants to use it for His glory and for the message of the gospel to get out.
How could you do that?
Well, one of our baptism stories was so beautiful this morning, and all of them always are, but the one that got my attention was a friend, Christian, gives Michael a book, and he reads it, and it's about Jesus, and he gives his life to Christ.
You could give somebody a book that's made a difference in your life.
You could give somebody a personal invitation to come to Christmas Eve service, walk across the street.
You might say, you know what, I really don't know that I have a platform.
You have neighbors.
So love your neighbor enough to just walk across the street and say, there's a Christmas Eve service at my church at three o'clock and five o'clock.
You'll be home in time for dinner or grandmas.
You won't miss a thing.
They'll hear the gospel if they come.
Maybe for you, it might be sharing your personal testimony.
You know, it's not so much about being a theologian.
It's not about having all the answers, but you can do
what the Gatorian demoniac did, this guy in Mark chapter five, the Bible describes as being inhabited with a legion of demons.
And Jesus cast those demons out of him and he'd been living in a graveyard and running around like a mad man, like he was crazy.
He ran around naked and he had this supernatural strength almost because of this demonic possession that he was under.
And Jesus cast it out and he was saying again, he returned to his family.
But the Bible says in Mark chapter 5 verse 20 that he went all through the Decapolis.
It was a series of 10 little villages in his part of the world.
He went all through the Decapolis telling others what Jesus had done for him.
You don't have to be a theologian.
You don't have to be able to answer all their questions.
But you can tell somebody what Jesus has done for you.
If you know John 3 16 and you have a testimony, you can witness.
So what I would say to you, the message of Christmas is give voice, give your voice to the gospel and use whatever platform you have.
Second thing, give your voice to global missions.
Give your voice to global missions.
The last commandment that Jesus gave is not in the gospels, it's actually in the book of Acts.
Jesus has died for our sins.
He's been buried, resurrected.
He walks among His disciples and gives them some instructions.
And then Jesus is ready to ascend back to heaven.
And the last thing He says is in Acts chapter 1 verse 8, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you.
And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem
and Judea and Samaria and to the remotest parts of the earth, to the ends of the earth.
Jesus says, you will be my witnesses.
Now he tells them that they're waiting for the Holy Spirit.
Here's what we know.
After his ascension, then they wait.
And then on the day of Pentecost, which was a feast, the Holy Spirit comes and fills every believer.
And now in the age of the church,
Every time someone trusts in Jesus, at that moment, you may not feel a thing, but you are filled with the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit of God comes.
He makes you alive in Christ because you were dead in your trespasses and sins before that.
He makes you alive in Christ.
He seals you in Christ.
He seals your salvation forever.
He fills you with His power, with His wisdom, and you can rely on Him.
If you've ever made this statement, it doesn't feel like my prayers are getting any higher than the ceiling.
Don't worry about it.
They don't have to because the spirit of the living God who is God himself is in you once you become a Christian.
So they were waiting on the Holy Spirit.
Let me tell you something.
When it comes to witnessing, we're not waiting on the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit's waiting on us.
That's what's going on here.
When he tells them, you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem.
Those were the people they knew.
He said, you'll be
my witnesses in Judea.
Those were the people who were like them and the people they liked.
And then he says this, you will be my witnesses in Samaria.
Those were the people they didn't like.
And then you will be my witness to the remotest parts of the earth.
Those were the people they didn't know.
Jesus says, tell the people you know, tell the people you like, tell the people you don't like, tell the people you don't know.
Tell them about me.
Be my witness.
Now you say, I can't go to the remote as part of the earth.
No, none of us can do all of that.
But here's what happens.
God calls people.
God places a special burden on some people's lives and we send them out and by our giving, by our prayer support, we undergird what they're doing and by our supporting them, we are going.
We are going through them.
Every year our church receives an offering at this time of year.
It's called the Laudie Moon Christmas offering for international missions.
Let me give you just a brief little rundown on what that is and why that is.
Laudie Moon was a Southern Baptist missionary.
In the late 1800s, early 1900s, she was in China.
She served for 39 years.
She faithfully
Taught the gospels, she established schools, especially for girls, because they were not being educated.
She obviously, it was a Christian environment, and so she was leading them to faith in Jesus.
But she was a diminutive little lady.
She was 411, and she was very thin, very small lady, just very petite.
But she was a powerhouse.
I mean, like, there was no doubt, even though in that day and age,
You know, women were kind of pushed to the side.
She was the leader of the mission in China.
There was just no doubt about it.
And she would write letters back to the United States asking churches to please support them because there was no unified effort.
Civil war and famine came to China and it got to a place where there was just no food.
And Lottie Moon, though she was being supported, she made a decision that if her people could not eat, she would not eat.
And she took all that she had and she distributed it.
She bought food and shared it with others.
And she lost a tremendous amount of weight.
Her health began to fail.
She began to have some dementia.
And so they sent her back to the United States.
They put her on a ship.
It sailed to Kobe, Japan and on Christmas Eve, 1912, Lottie Moon passed away because of her sacrifices for the gospel.
And so we honor that kind of commitment
by naming our offering after her.
That's not just us though.
It's 45,000 other Southern Baptist churches who pool our resources together.
And it's one of the reasons that for those of you who come to our church and you don't have that background, it's one of the reasons we're Southern Baptist is because we believe that we can do more together than we can do individually.
There is a multiplication effect when we do things together.
And so we pool our offerings
And when you give anything to the Lottie Moon Christmas offering, you're supporting 3,500 plus missionaries in 155 countries that are ministering to many more times that as far as language groups go.
Because when we look at the world, if you look at a world map, you see these straight lines and borders, but the truth is those are geopolitical man-made markers.
What our missionaries do is they go to tribes and to tongues, to language groups.
They go to a specific language group and that might overlap three or four countries.
Or it might be that in one country we have multiple missionaries because there are multiple tribes that need the gospel.
And here's one of the great things that I think you need to understand.
One of the tremendous burdens that maybe as a Christian we should see.
That there are over three
thousand language groups that have no Bible and no access to the gospel right now.
They are lost without help and without the hope of the gospel.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWF.org.
We'll see you next week.